#1)For each movie, return the title and the 'rating spread', that is, the difference between highest and lowest ratings given to that movie. Sort by rating spread from highest to lowest, then by movie title. 
select title,max(stars)-min(stars) as rat from movie, rating where movie.mid=rating.mid group by title order by rat desc;

#2)Find the difference between the average rating of movies released before 1980 and the average rating of movies released after 1980. (Make sure to calculate the average rating for each movie, then the average of those averages for movies before 1980 and movies after. Don't just calculate the overall average rating before and after 1980.) 


#3)Some directors directed more than one movie. For all such directors, return the titles of all movies directed by them, along with the director name. Sort by director name, then movie title. (As an extra challenge, try writing the query both with and without COUNT.) 
select title,director from movie where director in (select director from (select director ,count(title) as tit from movie group by director) as sit where sit.tit>1);

#4)Find the movie(s) with the highest average rating. Return the movie title(s) and average rating. (Hint: This query is more difficult to write in SQLite than other systems; you might think of it as finding the highest average rating and then choosing the movie(s) with that average rating.) 
select m.title, avg(r.stars) as stars1 from rating r join movie m on m.mid = r.mid group by r.mid having stars1 = (select max(s.stars) as stars from (select mid, avg(stars) as stars from rating group by mid) as st);

#5)Find the movie(s) with the lowest average rating. Return the movie title(s) and average rating. (Hint: This query may be more difficult to write in SQLite than other systems; you might think of it as finding the lowest average rating and then choosing the movie(s) with that average rating.)
select m.title, avg(r.stars) as stars1 from rating r join movie m on m.mid = r.mid group by r.mid having stars1 = (select min(s.stars) as stars from (select mid, avg(stars) as stars from rating group by mid) as s);

#6)For each director, return the director's name together with the title(s) of the movie(s) they directed that received the highest rating among all of their movies, and the value of that rating. Ignore movies whose director is NULL. 
select director, title, stars from movie m, rating r where m.mid = r.mid and director is not null group by director order by stars desc;
